NEW: "Scholars have discovered an ancient book dating back to before the destruction of Carthage describing the architecture of their famous grand harbour, known as a Cothon. Some scholars suggest this is mostly made up or originates primarily from aggrandised stories, as ancient historians had a tendency to do. 

Nevertheless, the design has caught the eye of the [Root.Monarch.GetTitle] and the prospect of constructing a splendid new harbour district in [950.GetCapitalName] presents an opportunity to meet the rising demand for trade and thus invest in the future prosperity of the state."

OLD: Scholars have discovered a Hellenistic book dating back to before the destruction of Carthage describing the architecture of their famous grand harbour, known as a Cothon. Some scholars suggest this is mostly made up or originates primarily from aggrandised stories, as ancient historians had a tendency to do. Nevertheless, the design seems very interesting and building a great new harbour district would boost the wealth of our ports in [950.GetCapitalName] tremendously since demand for trade is rising steadily.

VAR: Scholars have stumbled upon a Hellenistic manuscript predating the destruction of Carthage, offering insights into the construction of their famed grand harbor, the Cothon. While some scholars speculate that these descriptions might be somewhat embellished, the design itself has cought an eye of [Root.Monarch.GetTitle], and the prospect of constructing a splendid new harbor district in [950.GetCapitalName] presents an opportunity to meet the rising demand and invest in the future prosperity of the state.

NEW: "The renowned Library of Alexandria, believed to house numerous invaluable works, met a tragic fate in a fire more than a millennia ago, or so the records claim. Regardless of the cause, the loss was profound, leading to the destruction of a prominent place of learning along with countless manuscripts pertaining to mathematics, astronomy, physics and natural sciences. 

Inspired by the tales of old and rather positive outlook from the recent economic, political and administrative reforms, the [Root.Monarch.GetTitle] has seen it fit to commission a creation of a new library, one to eventually surpass its ancient counterpart. The place shall host a public library, complemented by educational institutions, and a large private collection only accessible to those who prove themselves in service to the [Root.Culture.GetAdjective] people."

OLD: The original library of Alexandria, which probably contained many great works of which no copies exist to date, was destroyed in a fire in dubious circumstances. It is possible the rising Christians caused this to happen during religious conflicts with pagan philosophers, but historical records tend to favor the victor; or, in contrast, contemporary losers might criminalise them out of spite. Whatever the case, much was lost that day. We do now have a rather large selection of works, old and new, and it might be beneficial to open up a library to the public; with adjacent educational institutes, we may encourage even greater scientific advancement.


NEW: The grand Hippodrome of Constantinople, an ancient marvel predating the city's rechristening by Constantine the Great, has long stood as the beating heart of our former capital. Through the centuries, it has been a social nexus for the nobility, and where even the common folk would find themselves sharing a venue with the Emperor.

Recently, a resurgence of interest in constructing a horse racing track, accompanied by a spectator's venue, has captured royal attention. Proponents argue that such a project would not only invigorate the breeding of horses suitable for racing, but also contribute to the production of swift and robust steeds for transportation and warfare. Not to mention it would divert the public's attention from the day-to-day hardships that seem persistent even in this new world. And, of course, the allure of witnessing thrilling races and spectacular crashes, especially when they involve opposing teams, remains an enduring source of entertainment regardless of age and status.

ALT: "The construction of the grand Hippodrome of Constantinople back in the Old World dates back to the days before Constantine the Great christened the city with its current name. Since then it has served as a heart of the city, where nobility would socialize and even the lower classes could share a venue with the Emperor.

The idea for building a horse racing track along with a spectator's venue has recently gained the attention in the royal circles, as its proponents argue it would stimulate the breeding of horses, suitable for racing, swift transportation and warfare alike. Not to mention it would take the public's mind of from the day to day hardships that have accompanied us into this new world. And at the end of the day nothing beats a good crash on a race track, as long as it happens to the opposite team of course.

OLD: We have come up with the ingenious idea to construct a solid track with stone tribunes to hold chariot races. Why is that so great? It would stimulate the breeding of horses, fine strong horses that are fast and can pull weight. And even better, the people simply love it, especially when the drivers crash against the side of the track! I must admit it makes me giggle a bit as well, after feeling bad for the drivers of course...